---
headerClass: c-header--colour
headerData: false
layout: post
permalink: /blog/:title/

title:  "Geckotree's front-end boilerplate"
blogTitle: Geckotree's front-end <span class="u-highlight-text">boilerplate</span>
author: rob
date:   2015-11-30

exerpt: "With the latest update to GoSquared we set ourselves the target of achieving a smooth 60 frames per second for all the core UI and animation, across all devices."
---

## What is a front-end boilerplate?
To us, it’s a stripped back solution for starting new projects. This means, instead of starting from scratch, we have a solid foundation which includes everything we use on all projects – CSS, JS, build tools etc.

## Why we created our front-end boilerplate
We saw a hole in our process, whenever we started a new project, we would take our most recent project and strip it back – this was not only time consuming but also meant we had variations in project structure.

By far, the biggest advantage of having a front-end boilerplate is that it saves time (quite a lot of time) – you already have the basic setup you would have to do upfront on a project.  

Another advantage is consistency, you might take it for granted, but a consistent project structure is important when switching between projects – you don’t have to relearn how everything is put together.

## What our front-end boilerplate includes

#### Project structure
This might seem trivial, but as mentioned above project structure is very important – there's nothing worse than not being able to find what you are looking for. At a very high level, a new project would look something like this:

    assets
    build
    src
    tasks
    .bowerrc
    .editorconfig
    .gitignore
    .htaccess
    .jshintrc
    Gruntfile.js
    bower.json
    humans.txt
    package.json
    robots.txt

Looking at the above, there isn’t too much going on in terms of folders, but we’ll come back to these. If we turn our attention to all the files in the root there is quite a lot going on here and for the most part we won’t even touch these files.

#### Grunt
[Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) is a very important part of our front-end boilerplate, it compiles and optimizes nearly everything we do – this makes us far more efficient. On top of compilation and optimization, we also use Grunt for initialising our front-end boilerplate.

You might use something like [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/) too but as we were already using Grunt we decided to use [Grunt init](http://gruntjs.com/project-scaffolding). This gives us the ability to conditionally include different features when creating a new project.

#### Asset files
The assets folder is the working directory which houses all of our development assets for the project – images, SASS and JS. There is quite a lot to cover here so we will cover these in more detailed posts.

#### Src files
Depending on the project, we will have the src directory which houses static HTML files. Just like the assets folder, the src folder has all of the development files which get compiled into the production folder later on.

#### Production files
This is the finished product and is what gets deployed to the server. All of our assets and src files get compiled into the build folder by different Grunt tasks.

As you can see, it’s clear where everything goes and how it all fits together.

## It’s always evolving
The beauty of having something like this is that it is never finished. We use [Trello](https://trello.com/) to track any improvements we think we could make, or any pain points we come across when using it that could be improved.

A front-end boilerplate doesn't have to be something you have written from scratch, you could use an existing one, the most important thing is that you use something that you know.

